elves orcs and cat people will be
populating the continent of Tamriel when
the Elder Scrolls online launches on
April 4th will your PC be equally
prepared for pillaging Daedric ruins and
ambushing innocent mud crabs let's take
a look at some recommended specs for
running the game on a wide range of
settings first let's look at the minimum
requirements well the minimum specs
might not look pretty the Elder Scrolls
online is designed to run on a wide
spectrum of builds and so here's what
bethesda sees as the most basic
requirements you can apparently squeak
by with a dual-core CPU clocking in at a
minimum of 2 gigahertz while their
recommendations also call for only 2
gigabytes of RAM and they say video
cards will need to be at least DirectX 9
compatible with 512 Meg's of video RAM
components in this range are extremely
cheap and generally outdated by current
standards but on release day you should
be able to run the game on minimum
settings with a rig below the current
minimum tier on the logical increments
parts list but what if you want to run
Elder Scrolls online at a decent
framerate and resolution on moderate
settings we would recommend using a
build that's at least comparable with
the current modest or fair tiers on the
parts list these components are a good
example for the CPU would recommend
something along the lines of an AMD
athlon x4 750 or an intel pentium g 30
to 20 we'd recommend at least 4
gigabytes of RAM for the graphics card
we'd recommend something with DirectX 11
compatibility in 1 gigabyte of video RAM
like a Radeon r7 260x or a geforce gtx
750 but what if you want to experience
the game on maximum settings the way
it's meant to be played let's see what
the game needs to play on full settings
assuming a target resolution of 1080p at
60 frames a second since the Elder
Scrolls online is an MMORPG with a big
range of environments and an occasional
high number of players on the screen it
will demand a considerable amount of
power to run at max settings with a
solid frame rate for the CPU on the AMD
side we recommend something like the 8
core FX 8350 with intel you want
something like a quad core i5 like the
4570 you want at least 8 gigabytes of
RAM and a video card supporting DirectX
11 with 2 gigabytes of video RAM like a
Radeon r9 270x
or a geforce gtx 760
these specs falling around the superb
and excellent tears on the logical
increments parts list for enthusiasts
with monitors that support resolutions
above 1080p or refresh rates they can
get you 120 FPS or higher you might be
looking for systems that will get you
even better performance levels to run
the game on max settings at higher
resolutions and frame rates we recommend
checking out the parts list starting at
the outstanding level and above for a
frame of reference here's what we
recommend running Elder Scrolls online
at 4k resolution and around 45 frames
per second for the CPU you're going to
want at least a powerful quad-core Intel
chip like an i-5 46 70 K or even an i7
4770k to be on the safe side we'd
recommend 16 gigabytes of RAM and at
least 3 gigabytes of video RAM like what
you get with a geforce gtx 780 these
components can be found around the
exceptional and enthusiast tiers in
logical increments comm you can always
go with the extremists or monstrous
tears to take the game even further
check the Elder Scrolls game guide at
logical increments calm for links to
specific parts mention here and until
next time show those mud crabs a little
mercy alright